---
title: Sensing and Communication via EMI Side-channel
summary: My main PhD project.
tags:
- Deep Learning
date: "2021-10-01T00:00:00Z"

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link: ""

image:
  caption: Overveiw
  focal_point: Smart

links:

url_code: ""
url_pdf: ""
url_slides: ""
url_video: ""

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this project with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides: ""
---



# Summary

With the rapid development of mobile terminal industry, mobile devices have brought many security and privacy issues while penetrating people's lives. Among them, there are three major issues for existing mobile devices: (1) For the air-gapped mobile devices where all communication methods are disabled, is it secure enough to prevent the confidential data from being leaked? (2) Although the mobile device/operating system prevents third-party application (app) developers from accessing system kernel information, are there other ways to infer the app usage behavior of current device users? (3) The proliferation of cameras and microphones in mobile devices also brings the risk of eavesdropping from various attackers, how to design a trustworthy eavesdropping detection technique to identify all eavesdropping attacks?
    The electromagnetic radiation (EM) side-channel provides new solutions to the above problems. (1) The EM signal generated by the CPU in the mobile device can be used for wireless communication data embedding, so there is a risk of leaking confidential data even on the air-gapped mobile devices. (2) Mobile devices generate different EM signals when performing different application tasks, and a reasonable analysis of EM signals can be a breakthrough to identify application usage behavior. (3) When an eavesdropping attacker accesses camera/microphone data, the related hardware module also generates EM signals, and capturing such EM signals can be used to achieve the identification of camera/microphone working status.
    Therefore, this project uses the EM signals generated when the mobile device is running as a bypass channel and proposes solutions to three key problems.(1) To realize the near-field communication in the air-gapped  mobile devices, this paper proposes the MagneComm system, which utilizes the electromagnetic radiation (EM) signal generated by the CPU in the mobile device to embed the data stream and the magnetometer to capture the magnetic field signal for the decoding of the transmitted data. Technical solutions such as data modulation/demodulation, preamble detection, active retransmission at the transmitter side, multiple transmitters and full duplex communication are proposed to enhance the communication stability and transmission rate of the MagneComm system. Experimental validation results show that the MagneComm system can support a communication distance of $10$~cm, and can achieve an effective transmission rate of 110 bps (bits per second) in normal speed communication mode and up to 17.28 kbps in full speed communication mode. (2) To address the problem of mobile application (app) usage behavior recognition, this paper concludes from a detailed analysis that the EM signals leaked by mobile devices while executing app tasks are in strong correspondence with the sequence of instruction codes executed by the CPU, and proposes the MagThief system based on this key observation to implement a mobile app usage behavior recognition system that does not require user privileges. The feature extraction, machine learning algorithms and deep learning algorithms proposed in designing the MagThief system can be used to identify the following app usage behaviors: single app/in-app operation initiation behavior, multiple app/in-app service continuous usage behavior. We evaluate MagThief performance with 50 mainstream apps, 30 YouTube videos and 50 most frequently visited websites. Experiments show that MagThief identifies app launch process with 98.6% average accuracy, video content with 98.6% average accuracy, and 90.4% average accuracy of visit websites; MagThief achieves 0.87 and 0.95 average F1 macro scores in recognizing multiple apps and in-app services at the same time, respectively. (3) To address the prevalent problem of sensitive sensor data eavesdropping in mobile devices, this paper proposes a camera/microphone eavesdropping detection system based on EM bypass signals, called MagDefender, by exploiting the physical phenomenon that the device's on-board hardware module inevitably leaks electromagnetic radiation (EM) signals when an eavesdropper accesses microphone and/or camera data. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the MagDefender system is highly accurate and robust in identifying camera/microphone operating states, obtaining an average accuracy of up to 97.3% on trained mobile devices and 91.5% on untrained mobile devices. Compared with existing monitoring methods, the MagDefender system is OS-independent and can detect eavesdropping from advanced attackers (e.g., smartphone vendors).
